P3 -- the push did not happen. GitHub's push protection refused refs/heads/main, naming the
canary at tests/bypass_fe_secret_in_context_fixture.sh:126 as a Slack API Token. No CI run of
this tree exists, so every line of P2 remains unobserved -- neither confirmed nor falsified --
and this file records why, before anything is done about it.

basis:      harness-pack main @ 4087f05, nine commits ahead of origin/main, working tree clean
            but for the untracked .probe-repo/. origin/main is d75b72f, which predates the
            register wiring: the newest run on the remote is 31618456931 against that sha, and
            it is not a run of this tree. Reading it as evidence for P2 would be reading a
            different program.

observed:   `git push` refused, literally:

              remote: error: GH013: Repository rule violations found for refs/heads/main.
              remote: - GITHUB PUSH PROTECTION
              remote:     - Push cannot contain secrets
              remote:       -- Slack API Token --
              remote:        locations:
              remote:          - commit: 9d64e33d71f024782258142b53127a695f38224d
              remote:            path: tests/bypass_fe_secret_in_context_fixture.sh:126
              ! [remote rejected] main -> main (push declined due to repository rule violations)

            9d64e33 is the commit that introduced the fixture. It has never been on the remote,
            which is why the detection fires now and not earlier.

WHAT THIS IS, AND IT IS NOT A DEFECT IN THE FIXTURE. Control 2 of bypass_fe exists because the
fixture refuses to assert on its own authority that a string is a secret; it hands the canary to
gitleaks and requires a finding. GitHub's secret scanner is a SECOND external judgment, from a
vendor nobody consulted, reached independently -- and it agrees so firmly that it will not carry
the bytes. The control's premise is corroborated by an instrument that was never part of the
experiment. The canary is manifestly fictitious to a reader, every variable component zeroed,
and it is a finding to two scanners. That is the property the row needs.

The `# gitleaks:allow` directive on that line binds gitleaks and nothing else. It was written as
"a named, in-place exception, not an entry in a config file that would outlive it". GitHub's
scanner does not read it, and there is no in-place directive that it does read.

THE DECISION: allowlist the detection at the URL GitHub returned, declaring it as used in tests.
Three alternatives were considered and rejected, and the reasons are the point:

  Assemble the canary from parts at runtime so no literal sits in the blob. This would work --
  control 2 writes $CANARY to a file and scans THAT, so gitleaks would still see the whole
  string while the scanner saw none of it. It is rejected because it is a deliberate evasion of
  a secret scanner, written into a repository whose entire purpose is to make claims checkable.
  A tree that learns to obfuscate when a scanner objects has acquired the habit this stack
  exists to prevent, one floor up. If it were ever right, it would need an ADR arguing for it,
  and that is not an ADR anyone should want to write.

  Weaken the canary until neither scanner flags it. This kills control 2 by construction: the
  row would then prove that arbitrary text reaches the worker system prompt, which is a thing
  nobody disputes and B116 does not assert.

  Rewrite 9d64e33 out of history. The commit is the falsifier's own provenance, and P1's basis
  pins the blob it was captured against. Removing it to satisfy a scanner would cost the
  evidence chain more than the detection costs.

WHAT THE ALLOWLIST BUYS AND WHAT IT DOES NOT. It is per-secret, auditable and revocable, and it
is honest: the string is used in a test. What it does NOT do is live in this repository. It is a
state of the remote that no artifact here records and no gate here can see -- exactly the shape
of undeclared control this tree is written against. This file is the record. A gate over it is
not written and is named as absent rather than implied.

NOT DECIDED HERE. ADR-009 OR-B, the secret gate over harness-pack's own tree, remains open and
is untouched. The gitleaks step added by c689554 brings a SCANNER for one fixture's control; it
does not scan this repository and it is not that gate.

WHAT P2 DID NOT PREDICT, AND THIS IS THE FINDING. P2 enumerates F1-F10 over the CI log, and F9
covers a job that fails before `bash tests/run_tests.sh` is reached. It has no branch for the
push never happening: it assumed the tree would arrive at the runner and predicted only what the
runner would do with it. The gap is recorded and P2 is NOT edited -- it is pinned by the
tracker's GATE-4 at the digest it had before any of this was known, which is the whole reason
that pin exists. A prediction improved after the event is a description.
